# PHP Photo Tagger

I'm traveling. If nothing goes wrong, it will take more than half year. During half year, I create huge amount of photos. And on the end of travel, I will barely remember, what and where I have photographed. And it would be hassle to collect certain things, like getting collection of (and only) photos of animals. So, this is, why I have started to writing this app.

## Status

The project consist of disgusting ugly code written in disgusting ugly language. It can tag photos and add them a comment plus list photos by their tag using logic expressions like `(tag1 and not (tag2 or tag3))`.

## How to use?

As this project is intended for my specific use, it's not straight-forward to use it. There have to be directory structure and CSV "database" files generated, which are generated by scripts (in scripts directory) prepared for my HW and SW.

It is based around two sets of scripts - the first set (`backup-fotak.sh` and `backup-sarka`) should copy photos to local filesystem from SD card, sort it into directories by date and save the newest photography date to some file, so next time, it will only copy newer files. 

There is also one script that should be run directly on android phone and upload photos directly to server - `sukofon-backup.sh`.

Second set of scripts should manage rsync backup to my server (`backup-disk2server.sh`), folder by folder and then (`ftbu.sh`) should backup all these new photos into backblaze servers (in case something on VPS broke) and prepare thumbnails + create CSV files. 


So, basically, if you would like to use this project, you will probably need to change behavior of these scripts

## What is supported

All this is made specifically for my (and my girlfriends) hardware and software.

* Website requires PHP 7 or newer
* Scripts should be OK on any linux OS
* `make-thumbs.sh` used in `ftbu.sh` script requires exiv2 and imagemagick (convert)
* Creating thumbnails from RAW files is working with Lumix DMX-GM1 and probably will not work with other models or brands.

## Contribute

Although this project is intended just for my use, you can do whatever you want - use it, fork it, send PRs or commit issues. Any contribution is appreciated and may lead to maturing the SW.
